ahead of Anthony blinken's visit to
Israel today DW Washington bureau chief
Enis pole talked to Nathan treack Deputy
spokesman at the US Department of State
about the United States plans to press
for a humanitarian pause in the Israel
Hamas War Nathan Tech thank you so much
for making time for deell thank you so
much glad to be here so uh the US
Administration is Seeking a pass in the
fighting between Israel and Hamas how
can in the US government influence prime
minister Netanyahu who doesn't seem to
slow down well just to clarify what
we're looking for is not just a single
pause but rather pauses and in fact as
my colleague Matt Miller the department
spokesperson has noted before we have
seen in effect defacto pauses in the
past to ensure for example that
humanitarian Aid can enter in Via truck
through the Rafa gate into Gaza and at
the same time we've seen pauses to
ensure that American hostages uh can get
released and leave Gaza as well so our
goal when we say humanitarian pause is
to ensure that military operations do
not interfere with the delivery of
humanitarian assistance to the civilians
who need it uh do not interfere with the
the with the release of hostages or with
the exit of foreign Nationals stuck in
Gaza who are just trying to go home so
is prime minister Netanyahu kind of
listening to the wishes of the US
government well uh look at the end of
the day we enjoy a very strong
relationship with Israel and that strong
relationship allows us to be in a
position to offer our Israeli friends
advice and the best practices of our own
experience in fighting terrorism and
that's exactly what we're doing uh we
are making clear to the Israelis that as
democracies we have a responsibility to
take every measure to ensure that uh uh
human life is preserved civilian life is
preserved that the international uh uh
humanitarian law is respected and
protected unfortunately by the way it's
just important to note that Hamas of
course has shown no regard for
international humanitarian law so the
Burden Burden is not solely on Israel
here right it's in fact important to
note uh that Israel is responding to a
Despicable brutal terrorist attack that
took place on October 7th no country no
sovereign country would AC would accept
or do nothing in the face of that kind
of an attack and Israel is simply
exercising the right it has and the
obligation it has to defend itself the
Arab Muslim Community here uh in the
United States is Raising concerns uh
frustration um about President Biden
being in such strong s support of prime
minister netan and some are saying no we
won't vote for him again next year what
does that mean for the president well uh
we don't do politics here at the state
department uh but there's certainly no
question as I said before the United
States is a diverse and vibrant
democracy people have a wide range of
views and they exercise those views at
The Ballot Box uh I think what's
important also to note is that of course
we have lots of friends and partners in
the Arab world in the Muslim World
overseas uh We've engaged in robust
almost daily conversations with our
partners in the Arab world about this
issue uh and we're grateful for those
relationships that we have and we're
going to continue to work with uh allies
and partners uh including countries like
Egypt Jordan Qatar uh and others uh to
ensure that we can protect Palestinian
civilians and ensure that Israel
maintains its right to exist and defend
itself secretary of state blinkin is
right now traveling in this region how
big is the fear that the conflict
spreads and might also bring terrorism
back to the United States well our goal
of course is to stop this conflict from
spiraling from spreading Hamas is doing
everything it can to pull in other uh
Regional uh countries to uh destabilize
the entire Middle East uh we of course
firmly oppose that and part of the
reason why this is the secretary's I
believe third trip in just a matter of a
few weeks to the region is because he is
so firmly committed to doing everything
we can using the tools of diplomacy to
ensure that this conflict does not
spread throughout the region what does
this conflict in Israel mean for the
conflict for the war in Ukraine well uh
as we like to say in the United States
we can walk and chew gum at the same
time we can do two things at the same
time we're a great nation and we've got
great Partnerships and alliances around
the world as well uh the United States
will continue to provide Ukraine with
what it needs to do what it takes to
defend itself from Russia's brutal
unprovoked uh an illegal further
Invasion uh our goal continues to be to
provide Ukraine with with what it needs
militarily diplomatically and
economically uh to ensure that it can
defend its own sovereignty we have not
forgotten Ukraine Ukraine is still at
the top of the agenda and even with the
new speaker in the house who kind of uh
is saying pretty much the opposite from
what you are saying what would be your
message to ukrainians can ukrainians
rely on the United States uh the
ukrainians can absolutely rely on the
United States President Biden has made
that clear secretary blinkin has made
that clear uh and uh the Ukraine can
also appreciate the fact that we built a
very strong set of alliances uh
strengthen NATO like it's never been
strengthened before uh and uh and a
broad Coalition of countries of over 50
countries in fact who are working to
provide Ukraine with what it needs to
defend its sovereignty thank you very
much thank you appreciate it let's now
speak to journalist kareim El goari who
is in Cairo uh Kareem US Secretary of
State uh blinkin is in Israel to Presser
humanitarian pauses in Gaza what would
those pauses mean for the transit at the
Rafa
border of course the uh poses or a pause
as the Arab world is demanding it would
make a big difference because uh it is
very difficult to move within the Gaza
Strip right now um towards for example
the Rafer border and it would make it
much easier to get humanitarian Aid in
and injured people out as it's happening
now but in small numbers for example we
had like roughly a bit more than 500
trucks since the beginning coming into
the Gaza Strip that was the amount of
trucks that was before the war needed
every day in Gaza we understand uh you
met with some people who managed to
leave the Gaza Strip what have they told
you yeah it's a group of austrians who
were evacuated from the Gaza Strip uh
two days ago and they managed to talk to
them they T me basically like how
difficult it was to coordinate this
whole evacuation within the Gaza Strip
with the communication of and down was
often having no electricity having no
internet so that was the first Big
Challenge they talked about the relief
when they came out walked through this
gate in Rafa coming out with their
family in safety but at the same time
saying okay we left all our old life
behind and then they were talking about
the situation in Gaza he was telling me
for examp the story that he with his
family every night there is no shelter
or nothing when the bombardments are on
and he said they were basically lying
all he his daughter six and N years old
and the family were lying in one bed
with the argument when the house is
bombed then we are dying all together or
we surviving all together that's the
strategies of people in Gaza right now
oh my goodness um besides uh preparing
regular hospitals Egypt is building a
field Hospital in the Sin close to the
border with Gaza will it be enough to
care for the many critically wounded
people being transported
there well it it once they really
transported in big numbers because until
now it's not many the field Hospital
right besides not far away has 50 beds
but they already dispersing injured they
are coming now to CYO to ismia to other
hospitals in Egypt so that's not the
problem the problem is H to transport
them out of Gaza there are lists
prepared by the doctors in for example
the shiffer hospital in Gaza
coordinating with the Egyptians who can
come of course the heavily injured
cannot be transported but they're trying
to get some kind of relief in the Gaza
Strip with a health sector that is more
or less is collapsing or on the verge of
collapse so this we will probably see
more injured people coming out of the
Gaza Strip in the next
days as you well know Kim uh hezbollah's
leader Hassan nazali is due to make his
first public uh comment since the
beginning of the war what can we expect
to
hear yeah that is a moment of real
tension I just came back from Lebanon
two days ago and we could see already
the trailers in television on social
media of this speech saying like the
promises will be fulfilled in similar
things so we're waiting what's going to
happen uh this speech is going to be
this afternoon there is basically three
possibilities uh he might generally
speak about the excess of resistance
which is Hamas and hisbah against Israel
and just be keep being on vague and
trying to bind as many Israeli forces in
the north as possible he might determine
some red lines the Israelis are not to
overstep and and then hisb might start a
war or he might order to press the
button so we really don't know until now
both forces the Israeli side and the
hisbah are basically in an escalating
way shooting to each other at the border
but still staying in their normal Rules
of Engagement which means that
everything until now area very quickly I
heard you say third option he might
press the button did I hear you
correctly and what do you mean by
that pressing the button means that he
would start a war and of course hisb has
a huge missile Arsenal and start using
it but I think this is probably the most
unlikely scenario Ahmed alandari is the
World Health organization's Regional
director for the Eastern Mediterranean
uh he joined us earlier from Cairo and I
asked him whether he expects Egypt to
accept further injured people for
treatment good morning Claire thank you
very much for giving me the opportunity
yes definitely you know this this is
based on our discussion with the
president you know ABD fatahi three
weeks back when Dr tedras and I met him
uh and also after that you know we have
been arranging with the health
authorities here in Egypt as well as the
red Cresent in fact you know to receive
as as many as possible number of
patients wounded patients and children
and women for further treatment um Mike
Ryan who is the Deputy the executive
director of the emergency department was
here last week uh from Geneva and we
have had several meetings including the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as
minister of health and BR
Cresent where will people there be
treated I'm curious what resources are
available and which facilities in
Egypt they have they have prepared
themselves very well Mike Ryan visited
Alish sa hospitals there in that area uh
they have a several hospitals in fact
prepared to receive different types of
casualties patients with different types
of illnesses uh they have very good
capacity ambulances you know with with
equipped with all you know necessary
equipments and machines Mike Ryan
visited that place and he came back very
positive about it now um I we've had
media reports that Egypt is building a
hospital for the injured uh in Sinai um
can you give us any insight into how
that process is going and how many
people it would be able to
receive
yeah I mean based on our discussion with
them they are preparing themselves to to
receive currently now at this position
more than 15,000 patients of different
types of you know illnesses as you said
they have established a field Hospital
in addition to the current hospitals
they have in in in sa um equipped with
stuff with ambulances with machines
drugs um and they they coordinate with
us with red Cresent with other agencies
as well now I understand that you
personally have also just been to Beirut
meeting with officials there to discuss
preparing lebanon's health system in
case hostilities do spill over into
Southern Lebanon um at this point how
well equipped is lebanon's Health System
to deal with possible
casualties thank you for this question
clear in fact as we all know Lebanon has
been you know undergoing very severe
political as well as economic crisis uh
you know the country have been facing a
very tough time when it comes into the
health system so the visit there I met
the Prime Minister Health minister of
health and other agencies and I visited
uh several locations um they are trying
their level best you know to prepare
themselves for whatever scenarios uh you
know making sure that you know their
hospitals are well equipped we
distributed supplies to several
hospitals we have made training of
healthcare staff uh you know and and we
are trying to secure finan funds you
know to support the health system in
coordination with other un agencies
donors and partners so it sounds like a
lot of work and funds are needed uh to
be able to bring it up to enough
capacity to to deal with that
possibility um can you tell me a little
bit more about what is being done to
bolster its
capabilities um as I have mentioned you
know we have been coordinating with the
minister of Health for training of Staff
nurses uh we established the Emergency
Operating centers with a command by the
Prime Minister you know for the whole of
government sectors uh we have being
coordinating with other un agencies to
provide Supply like for example with
UNICEF I
uncr uh you know to different hospitals
we have been strengthening the
surveillance system uh to make sure that
you know if if God forbidden there is a
public health threat we can identify
these threats and act fast on it uh we
have been providing supplies like drugs
you know trauma kits emergency kits to
several hospitals in in distributed in
the country but mainly at the areas that
we expect you know that the conflict is
is more there for more let's now speak
to Julet tumar the director of
communications for Ana the United
Nations relief and works Agency for
Palestinian refugees she joins us now
from Jordan's capital Aman Juliet the
commissioner general of unra visited
Gaza and said that he has never seen any
anything like it paint a picture of what
he
saw Yes uh he did say that it was a very
very sad day for him um one of the
saddest in his uh humanitarian service
and he's been doing that sort of work
for nearly 30 years now um he was very
sad to see the people of Gaza the
Palestinian community in Gaza so
stripped of the dignity all they were
asking for was a sip of water and a
piece of bread um it is safe to say that
we've never ever seen Gaza in such a
desperate situation as we have a few
days ago as more than 1 million people
have been forced to f their homes our
own staff included our own resources
stretched to the the limits the limits
of the limits it's
unprecedented Israel says it has
essentially besieged Gaza City how many
people do you estimate are still in the
city and what are they
Facing The Siege is across the Gaza
Strip not only Gaza City the whole Gaza
Strip from north to south is under siege
which means that very very very very
little Aid and assistance is coming in
uh and including those trucks that are a
drop in the ocean that really do not
correspond at all to the overwhelming
needs of uh the people it is very very
hard for people to get out of Gaza um
this has come on top of a 16e long
blockade that Gaza has been going
through your Secretary of State uh
blinkin is in Israel to press for
humanitarian pauses in Gaza what is it
that you require in that deal in order
to provide effective help on the ground
given that unre facilities have been
also hit in air
strikes anra has been calling for many
long weeks now for a humanitarian
ceasefire this is long overdue we have
lost 72 colleagues of of hours including
most recently our colleague ma who is
herself displaced she also had physical
disabilities and she was working with us
as a software developer she was killed
with members of her family we are
calling for a humanitarian ceasefire
once again our calls have been falling
on deaf ears and we're asking how many
more and how much more suffering grief
and loss how much more a ceasefire is
very much needed for Humanity but to the
extent that you can get particular and
specific about this you've also been hit
your infrastructure has been damaged uh
how long does that ceasefire need to be
imagine you get one what do you actually
need from all the forces here in order
to do the work that you
do how long is the ceasefire forever the
ceasefire needs to
last and as for our facilities yes 50 of
our facilities of un facilities among
them schools as well but also our
headquarters in Gaza City they have been
impacted during this war and only
yesterday you may have seen four schools
that were Sheltering around 20,000
people have been damaged because of the
bombardment and because of the ongoing
War it had those un facilities I had un
flags on them we share the coord with
parties to the conflict and there were
people who were killed including
children who were seeking shelter and
safety in un
facilities I'm curious about something
speaking to the media your unra Chief
said that quoting now hunger is turning
into anger and that civilians in Gaza
have absolutely nothing are people
already Starving in
Gaza they're certainly getting hungry
sir they're certainly getting hungry the
markets are emptying up uh our own
supplies are running out those um the
the trickle of Aid that has been coming
into Gaza since the 21st of October is
by far not enough is by far not enough
we have been giving wheat flour to
bakeries but also the bakeries are
running out of cooking G and they're
running out of fuel this is exactly why
we've been asking for Urgent shipments
of
fuel that is uh Juliet Tuma the director
of communications for anra many many
thanks
okay